README.md, before:

# Embed Arxiv

## Overview

This project involves downloading metadata from ArXiv and generating vector embeddings for the articles using an embedding model. The generated embeddings are compatible with [Milvus](https://milvus.io/).

Please find a copy of embeddings dataset on [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/datasets/bluuebunny/arxiv_abstract_embedding_mxbai_large_v1_milvus) generated using model [mxbai-embed-large-v1](https://huggingface.co/mixedbread-ai/mxbai-embed-large-v1).

## Features

- Metadata Download: Collect metadata for scientific articles from ArXiv.
- Embedding Generation: Use a pre-trained embedding model to generate vector representations for the articles.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Satisfy prerequisites by issuing this command:
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage

Run the files in the following order:
1. Download Metadata:
- `prepare_metadata.py` to download the arXiv metadata from kaggle and split it year-wise.
  
2. Embed Abstract:
- `embed_abstract_all.py` to embed the abstract of the **all** papers in metadata.
- `embed_abstract_diff.py` to embed the abstract of the **new** papers in metadata.
   
## Extras:
1. `upload_hf.py` to upload files to [huggingface.co](https://huggingface.co/)

Commit message:

redesigned repo, have 1 file for creating and another for updating without keeping downloads as seperate

README.md, after:

# Embed Arxiv (Backend for [PaperMatch](https://github.com/mitanshu7/PaperMatch))

## Overview

This project involves downloading metadata from ArXiv and generating vector embeddings for the articles using an embedding model. The generated embeddings are compatible with [Milvus](https://milvus.io/) vector database.

Please find a copy of embeddings dataset on [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/datasets/bluuebunny/arxiv_abstract_embedding_mxbai_large_v1_milvus) generated using model [mxbai-embed-large-v1](https://www.mixedbread.ai/docs/embeddings/mxbai-embed-large-v1).

## Features

- Metadata Download: Collect metadata for scientific articles from ArXiv.
- Embedding Generation: Use a pre-trained embedding model to generate vector representations for the articles.
- Updaing Embeddings: Update existing embeddings for new papers in metadata.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
_(untested)_

Satisfy prerequisites by issuing this command:
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project with the following variables:

- HF_API_KEY="<SECRET>" # Required for uploading dataset to HuggingFace
- MXBAI_API_KEY = "<SECRET>" # Required for using mxbai-embed-large-v1 model via API 

See `.env.sample` for an example.  

## Usage

1. Create new embeddings:
- `create_embeddings.py` to embed the abstract of the **all** papers in metadata.

2. Update existing embeddings:
- `update_embeddings.py` to embed the abstract of the **new** papers in metadata.
